okay so sony just put out this
playstation 5 teardown video
and the first thing i noticed was like
oh my god that thing is a huge
huge console it's bigger than i thought
it would be like i expected it to be
large because we'd seen like the paper
specs and you
see the pictures and you compare them
side by side but when you see it in
front of a person
and their hands manipulating the device
you realize it is a huge console
but the other thing i noticed is that
because of its large size and its
spacious interior it gives you one huge
advantage over smaller consoles
you can cool it really well you can cool
it more easily and more effectively
because you can put
huge components in there you can put a
big fan ps5 has one fan
double intake blows a ton of air in
there and you have a gigantic heat sink
and because that heatsink is so big i
think that the playstation 5 is going to
be a quieter system
than the xbox series x like just the
physics behind it right
huge heatsink means a lot of surface
area to pull heat out of the system
versus the xbox which is already a very
sizable heatsink but this one on the
playstation 5 looks like it's
50 maybe 60 larger just visually it is
huge now microsoft is using a vapor
chamber on the xbox series x
while sony's using a more traditional
heat pipe system
but if they're designed properly they
are very similar like i know the term
vapor chamber sounds so much cooler and
so much more new age than like a heat
pipe but they're
they're basically the same kind of tech
they're just different shapes
and looking at that chunky heatsink from
the playstation 5
i really believe it's going to do an
awesome job at pulling heat out of that
system
now the most interesting thing to me in
this entire video from sony
was the presence of liquid metal
as the thermal interface material on
that chip it is crazy
when i saw that i was like what like
we'd seen the rumors right
a long time ago there were rumors that
sony's gonna use liquid metal in this
thing and i'll be honest when i saw
those rumors i was like there's no way
because here's the thing liquid metal is
better right in terms of thermal
performance but number one
it's expensive number two it's a more
complex
application it doesn't matter if you're
using machines or labor to do it
it is a way more complex application
process than just
squirting thermal paste on it right you
have to be careful it can be time
consuming
it's way more involved than just a
traditional
thermal paste application but number
three the most the craziest thing about
this
is that in order for them to use liquid
metal on the ps5
it has to be so well engineered
like look at this picture and i draw
your attention to two things so you can
see like the liquid metal layer floating
on top
of the soc but look at the foam
barrier that's surrounding the chip so
that is put in place to prevent
the liquid metal from spilling out and
going into the rest of the system
because if a drop of that stuff comes
out
it'll screw things up really quickly and
if you look closely there seems to be a
second
inner trim of some kind of sponge or
foam based material
possibly to prevent the stuff from
spilling out as well the whole thing is
though
if you have liquid metal because it's
gallium based it's conductive
if it comes out of that area and it
touches any kind of metal contacts on
the rest of your playstation 5
it can short-circuit it real fast so
it's got to be
really well engineered but the reason
why i find this so interesting
is that i don't think this has ever been
done before i can't think of another
time when a consumer
a consumer item that's mass-produced
right there's gonna be like 10 millions
of playstation 5 tens of millions of
playstation 5's maybe
hundreds of millions at the end running
liquid metal
and it's crazy it's cool but remember
sony did this in the pursuit of thermal
performance it's a bit of a risk
right it's a lot more complex than just
regular thermal paste
but i think the payoff is that you get a
system that is
incredibly well cooled and quiet the
playstation 5 seems
so well engineered to me like from the
side panels that pop off easily
to those dust collection ports we can
just like vacuum out the
dust that builds up to the bottom stand
that comes off and has a little area we
can put the screw back into
like it just seems so well engineered it
feels so japanese
right where there's like so meticulous
about these engineering decisions and
everything just kind of
works out really nicely it's so sony and
i love it
they also showed the area that's going
to house the expansion slots so if you
want to get extra storage for the ps5
you would plug it up in here but the
whole system
feels so much more thought out right it
seems so well engineered to like the
playstation 4
playstation 4 pro those are good systems
but this is just on another level i feel
like this is just
i think people are going to appreciate
it what do you think is this cool
okay hope you guys enjoyed this video
thumbs if you liked it subs if you loved
it i'll see you guys next time